+++
chapter = "Keep Your Head (And Your Heart) During a Storm"
title = "Dear Madam President"
subtitle = "An Open Letter To The Women Who Will Run The World"
author = "Jennifer Palmieri"
chapter_number = 5
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Dear-Madam-President-Letter-Women/dp/1538713454/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1531148383&sr=8-1&keywords=dear+madam+president"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/dear-madam-president-jennifer-palmieri/1127172031?ean=9781538713457#/"
+++

Madam Presdient, in the course of my career, I have ridden out more than my share of political storms. I was there for Whitewater, the Clinton impeachment, John Edwards's trial, the HealthCare.gov website crash, teh Ebola epiidemic, Hillary's emails, Russian hacks and leaks, multiple natural disasters, and foreign policy crises like the Kosovo War and ISIS beheadings. It is pretty fair to say that I have seen it all, and it is certain that you will encounter many more crises in the Oval Office. Know they can have a very destabilizing effect on a White House if you fail to lead properly. You are going to need to keep both a cool head and a warm heart to steer your ship through the storm.  
  
Everyone gets the "keeping a cool head" part of the equation. You have to lead by example and keep your team calm and focused in a criss. I have learned from watching President Obama and Hillary Clinton that the best leaders also listen with their hearts in times of crisis. They make sure the people serving them have the moral support they need to get the job done, and they make sure the people they serve are getting the leadership they need, too.  
  
**  
  
It was October 2013. I was the White House communciations director and responsible for press around the launch of HealthCare.gov, the website to sign up for health incsurance under the Affordable Care Act. It wasn't going well. The website did not work and there was devastating wall-to-wall press coverage of the failure. I saw it as my responsibility to fix it.  
  On one level, it was kind of a silly crisis. Our national security wasn't threatened. Nor did we face any real health threat, as we did th efollowing fall with the Ebola outbreak. It was simply a webite that did not work but eventually would get fixed. Nevertheless, the failure presented a very serious risk to us. The press coverage was relentless and was doing real damage every day to President Obama's standing, the credibility of the health care program, and people's belief in the ability of government to tackle big problems. There was a lot on the line, and I felt enormous pressure to do something to stem the tide of terrible press.  
    
My colleague Tar McGuinness and I spent a lot of time and effort trying to come up with ways to improve the news coverage. We searched for the few people who had gotten the website to work and have them tell their stories. I worked to draw attention to other important work that was happening in the Obama administration. None of it helped. I was seraching for a moment that would count as a turning point in the crisis that would successfully move the press off of covering the website and on to other issues. It eluded me.  
  
The team working on health care held daily meetings with President Obama to update him on our progress. At the end of each meeting, Tara and I would tell him our latest plans to try to improve the press around the website. After one meeting, as we got up to leave, the president told Tara and me to stay back. He told us, "I want you to know that I know that the press isn't going to get better until the site actually works." He went on to say, "It's great that you are trying and you should keep at it. But I just want you to know that I know this story isn't going away till we get the website working."  
  
I was grateful that he saw the situation clearly and knew it was not possible for us to generate better press under the current circumstancess, and that he had the heart to know that Tara and I needed to hear that from him. It relieved a lof ot the stress I had been feeling and gave me the ability to look more clearly at the situation and come up with a realistic plan for how to manage press while the website was being fixed.   
  
We did that by establishing a credible timeline for when the site would be repaired. We would do periodic press calls to update the media on the progress we were making. We set up press visits to the headquarters where the work was being done so there was something for the cameras to film. The team fixing the site hit their marks, we started to regain a bit of credibility, and two months later the site worked. The press moved on to other matters.  
  
It was July 2013. The verdict in the Trayvon Martin murder case had recently been handed down and there was tremendous pain and outrage in the African American community over the acquittal of George Zimmerman, the vigilante who had shot and killed the unarmed teenage boy. It was clear that the president's voice was going to be needed to help calm this storm. At the staff level, we had been discussing what he should say in response to the verdict. I thought he needed to talk to the African American community and was working through different options that would be most suitable. We were looking at African American radio shows or maybe visit with some black teenage boys and let them know they were loved and valued.  
  
The president called me, Valerie Jarrett, and our press secretary, Jay Carney, down to the Oval Office to discuss. When we got there, I asked him if he thought the African American community needed to hear from him. "No," he said, "I think I need to speak _for them._" He then laid out what he thought needed to be said. He said thirty-five years ago, he could have easily been Trayvon, a seventeen-year-old black boy whose life was cut short because someone was unnerved by the color of his skin. He spoke of experiences he had in his own life of white women crossing the street to avoid him at night or security guards following him around stores to make sure he didn't shoplift. He talked about how he and Mrs. Obama knew if they had sons instead of daughters, they would have to have "the talk" with their sons about going out of their way to steer clear of trouble with the police. The president was sitting in his customary yellow chair on the right side of the fireplace. I saw on the couch facing him and listened as our first black president told us about his own presonal journey with racism. Behind his head was a bust of Martin Luther King Jr. and a framed copy of the Emanicpation Proclamation. Like any job, working in the West Wing could feel like a grind. You face an endless stream of crises for which there were no easy solutions--just an appealing set of bad options from which you sought to make the pright choice. Press and political criticism were unending. It could wear you down. But then there were moments like this one, when you know you are witnessing history. I felt profoundly grateful to be in this room and hear him share these stories. I knew I was witnessing history.  
  
The next day, the president went to the White House Press Briefing Room and shared with all of the country what he had told us privately the day before about what it is like to live as a black man in America. It was a remarkable moment. No pollster would have advised him to make a speech like that, but it was something all of the country needed to hear. He had listened with his heart and understood what the people of this country--black and white--needed from their president at that moment.  
  
Hillary has had more than her share of stores to weather. A big one came her way on October 28, 2016, wehn the news broke that the FBI was reopening the Clinton email investigation. We were flying to Iowa when we learned of the news. Robby, Nick, and I approached Hillary on the plane, preparing to tell her of the shocking development.  
  
"I have something to tell you," I said to her.  
"Okay!" she said cheerfully. "What do you have to tell me?"  
"It's bad," I reply. "Really bad."  
"Okay," she said, turning serious and folding her hands to brace herself for what was coming. After I told her the news, she nodded and then got the slightest wry smile on her face. "You knew we weren't done, didn't you?" I asked.  
"Yes, I knew we weren't done," she responded. She knew we weren't going to make it all the way to Election Day without a major new plot twist, and here it was. "All right" she said matter-of-factly. "Let's talk about what we are going to do about it."  
We discussed putting out a staff-level statement first and decided she should speak publicly to the matter later in the day, after we learned more. This was the worst kind of crisis, the kind in which you have no means of even knowing what you're dealign with. It's not as if the FBI contacted the campaign to explain what was happnening. The only information we had was what we heard from the media and what was in the Comey letter. We were flying blind.  
The FBI had decided, for whatever reason, to reopen the email investigation. That wasn't a problem we could solve. All we could do was figure out how to address this sudden reappeartance of the elephant in the room in such a way that would could then quickly move the press away from the subject an on to issues people cared about. We decided the best course of action was to call on the FBI to tell the public the full details of what it was examining and express our concern about the timing of such a momentous action this close to an election. We did this in a writtten statement from the campaign and then as part of a press conference by Hillary.  
She showed remarkable composure at that press conference and over the course of the next eleven days as we sought to ride out this storm. Behind the scenes, beyond her composure, Hillary showed remarkable heart. By the end of that day in Iowa, we understood that the FBI's new actions on emails were actually related to the case it was pursuing against Huma Abedin's then-hubsand, Anthony Weiner. It was wrenching to watch the pain this news caused Huma. She was distraught. Hillary and I sat with her in our cabin on the plane as Huma sobbed. "He is going to kill me" was all Huma could manage to say in between sobs. She had been through so much in her marriage and on the campaign and had always managed to stay focused on her job and wear a brave face through whatever crisis she was facing. This was a rare momeny when she broke down. I watched as Hillary hugged her and was able to help calm Huma down. On the flight back to New York, Hillary insisted all of us have big ice-cream sundaes in an effort to cheer Huma up. She never said a word of complaint over the course of the next eleven days about the impact the Comey letter was having on her personally. From the moment I came to her with the bad news till Election Day, she maintained an upbeat attitude and kept all of us focused on what we needed to get done. She was a real trouper and used all of her head and heart to steer us.  
  
Looking back, I see that we on the staff should have listened to more to what Hillary's heart was telling her during this time. On the staff side, we were watching polls to try to judge how people were taking in the news of the Comey letter. Hillary was listening with her heart, and what it told her was at odds with what her team was advising.  
  
While emails were quite literally the last topic we wanted votes to hear Hillary Clinton talk about barely a week before the election, we initially all agreed she needed to address the issue in her campaign speeches for the first couple of days after the story broke. We knew people would be hearing about emails in the press and wanted to have them hear our side of this story. But after a couple of days, I was convinced it was time for us to move on to other topics. The rest of the campaign team was eager to get back to talking about "issues people care about," and I agreed that we had already said the little bit we were able to say about the FBI and should not continue to give the press footage of Hillary talking about emails. So we stopped addressing it.  
Unfortunately, the story stuck around and continued to dominate news coverage of the campaign. Every day, Hillary would ask if we were all sure she shouldn't be talking about the FBI and emails in her remarks. She was uneasy about not addressing it and leaving a vacuum for her opponent and others to fill, even though there was no polling evidence suggesting it was helpful for her to continue to talk about it. In retrospect, I see she was right. But we convinced her it was better for her to not raise the emails and instead to talk about issues that affected people's lives and problems she would solve as president. But no one was hearing her talk about the issues they cared about, because they were still hearing about emails.  
  
Whether or not it would have helped, it was foolish on our part to not continue to proactively address the FBI matter. We should have understood that people would take their cue from the media and continue to care about the emails, and that our attempts to focus on attention on anything else would be perceived as avoidance of a painful subject. It was a mistake, though at the time it was hard to accept that telling Hillary to keep bringing up emails herself could possibly be the right advice. But I should have seen that, as unappealing as addressing the issue was, it was what voters needed to hear from Hillary at the moment. She got that. It is the same sense President Obama had that told him what the country needed to hear from him about race after the Trayvon Martin case.  
  
Madam President, you are certain to encounter many storms; that cannot be avoided. Listen to both your head and your heart when you are leading in a time of crisis. Keep a cool head and hear the advice of your counselors. Take in all the wisdom their expertise brings them. But also listen to what your heart tells you the people serving yuo and the people you serve need from you in this crisis. Theere are times it may be at odds with the advice you are getting. Trust most what your own heart and head tell you to do. They will help you steer the ship to safety. 