content/post/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call--second-edition-chapter-4.md, before:

+++
chapter = "Step 1: Investigate"
title = "Perfect Phrases for the Sales Call, Second Edition"
subtitle = "Hundreds of Ready-to-Use Phrases for Persuading your Customers to Buy Any Product or Service"
author = "Jeb Brooks and William T. Brooks"
chapter_number = 4
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Perfect-Phrases-Sales-Call-Second/dp/0071745041/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1510760739&sr=8-1&keywords=perfect+phrases+for+the+sales+call"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call-jeb-brooks/1102881090?ean=9780071745048#/"
+++

### Appointment Setting Scenarios
#### You haven't yet sent materials to your prospect and are making a cold call
##### Situation 3
The gatekeeper answer the phone and the response is positive and receptive.  
> **You hear:** Margaret Smith's office. This is Barbara. How may I help you?  
> **You say:** Hello, Barbara. My Name is ____ with ____. I'm wondering is Ms. Smith is available?  
> **You hear:** Yes, she is. May I ask you what this is in reference to?  
> **You say:** Certainly. As I said, my name is _____. I'm with ____. [Insert your Direct Value Statement.]  
You are connected.  
> **You hear:**  Hello, this is Margaret Smith.  
> **You say:** Hello, Ms. Smith. As I told Barbara, my name is ____ with ____. [Insert your Direct Value Statement.] I was wondering if it might be possible for us to schedule an appointment so that I could show you how we might possibly e able to do the same for you.  
> _Pause and wait for response._  
> **You hear:** That sounds interesting.  
> **You say:** I can promise you this. If it is your opinion that what we have won't work for you, I'll certainly understand and not take too much of your time. Does that make sense?  
> **You hear:** As long as you do that, I'll be happy to see you.  
> **You say:** Good. Do you have your calendar handy? If so, let's go ahead and schedule an appointment. Is there a day next week that's particularly good for you?  
> _Agree on a time and date and schedule the appointment._  
  
This situation is not as rare as you may think. There are times when you'll be able to get a good, positive first metting. It's essential, however, that you remember that you spend a lot of time on the phone and/or make a presentation about your product or service and/or try to make a sale. One more time: your single, primary goal is to get an appointment.  
In many of these situations, you will not the overwhelming importance of your Direct Value Statement. You must prepare it carefully, and it is the only thing in this book that you must learn word for word. Use it at the most appropriate times and it will prove to be invaluable to you.  
Should you receive questions with regard to your product or service, always defer them with the statement: I can answer those questions when we get together. However, in orderr to answer them adequately, I'd like to ask you a few questions to see precisely how our solution can best be positioned to be of greatest value to you when we do get together.  
**Never forget:** All phone calls are always about one thing--getting an appointment. You are not making a sales presentation on the phone.

Commit message:

chore: add books to all posts

content/post/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call--second-edition-chapter-4.md, after:

+++
chapter = "Step 1: Investigate"
title = "Perfect Phrases for the Sales Call, Second Edition"
subtitle = "Hundreds of Ready-to-Use Phrases for Persuading your Customers to Buy Any Product or Service"
author = "Jeb Brooks and William T. Brooks"
chapter_number = 4
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Perfect-Phrases-Sales-Call-Second/dp/0071745041/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1510760739&sr=8-1&keywords=perfect+phrases+for+the+sales+call"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call-jeb-brooks/1102881090?ean=9780071745048#/"
books=["Perfect Phrases for the Sales Call, Second Edition"]
+++

### Appointment Setting Scenarios
#### You haven't yet sent materials to your prospect and are making a cold call
##### Situation 3
The gatekeeper answer the phone and the response is positive and receptive.  
> **You hear:** Margaret Smith's office. This is Barbara. How may I help you?  
> **You say:** Hello, Barbara. My Name is ____ with ____. I'm wondering is Ms. Smith is available?  
> **You hear:** Yes, she is. May I ask you what this is in reference to?  
> **You say:** Certainly. As I said, my name is _____. I'm with ____. [Insert your Direct Value Statement.]  
You are connected.  
> **You hear:**  Hello, this is Margaret Smith.  
> **You say:** Hello, Ms. Smith. As I told Barbara, my name is ____ with ____. [Insert your Direct Value Statement.] I was wondering if it might be possible for us to schedule an appointment so that I could show you how we might possibly e able to do the same for you.  
> _Pause and wait for response._  
> **You hear:** That sounds interesting.  
> **You say:** I can promise you this. If it is your opinion that what we have won't work for you, I'll certainly understand and not take too much of your time. Does that make sense?  
> **You hear:** As long as you do that, I'll be happy to see you.  
> **You say:** Good. Do you have your calendar handy? If so, let's go ahead and schedule an appointment. Is there a day next week that's particularly good for you?  
> _Agree on a time and date and schedule the appointment._  
  
This situation is not as rare as you may think. There are times when you'll be able to get a good, positive first metting. It's essential, however, that you remember that you spend a lot of time on the phone and/or make a presentation about your product or service and/or try to make a sale. One more time: your single, primary goal is to get an appointment.  
In many of these situations, you will not the overwhelming importance of your Direct Value Statement. You must prepare it carefully, and it is the only thing in this book that you must learn word for word. Use it at the most appropriate times and it will prove to be invaluable to you.  
Should you receive questions with regard to your product or service, always defer them with the statement: I can answer those questions when we get together. However, in orderr to answer them adequately, I'd like to ask you a few questions to see precisely how our solution can best be positioned to be of greatest value to you when we do get together.  
**Never forget:** All phone calls are always about one thing--getting an appointment. You are not making a sales presentation on the phone.
