content/post/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call--second-edition-chapter-2.md, before:

+++
chapter = "The Nine Sales You Must Make First"
title = "Perfect Phrases for the Sales Call, Second Edition"
subtitle = "Hundreds of Ready-to-Use Phrases for Persuading your Customers to Buy Any Product or Service"
author = "Jeb Brooks and William T. Brooks"
chapter_number = 2
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Perfect-Phrases-Sales-Call-Second/dp/0071745041/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1510760739&sr=8-1&keywords=perfect+phrases+for+the+sales+call"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call-jeb-brooks/1102881090?ean=9780071745048#/"
+++

### 9. You Must Master Special Situations
There are many unique circumstances that you will have to master if you ever hope to be a super-successful salesperson. And those circumstances center primarily around two specific issues: handling price and dislodging competitors who are already providing products or services to your prospect. Without a doubt, these two issues often prove to be the most difficult for salespoeople, no matter their level of experience or expertise.  
  
The first, price, really requires an entire book to explore. In fact, our book, _How to Sell at Margins Higher Than Your Competitors_, deals exclusively with this one complex issue. Suffice it to say at this point that your ease in handling the myriad questions and problems that revolve around price will be one of your major challenges. And here's why.  
  
Your continued sales success has a lot to do with margin. Don't believe for one second that you can survive long in the world of sales if you start discounting to meet a competitor's price or in some other way eroding margin. Highly professional salespeople know that the secret to a long-term sales career is how well they deal with price issues and maintain margin despite the efforts of prospects to get them to reduce their price.  
  
The second issue, dislodging a competitor, requires tact, patience, and skill. It involves one of the more subtle and precise skills you will have to master to expand the reach and increase the depth of your sales effort. Ironically, that skill is far more a matter of pre-call planning and intelligent questioning than of persuasion.  
  
One key truth should be clear and implicit: your best customer is someone else's top prsopect! So defend the high ground. And you should simultaneously make someone else's best customer your top prospect, too. That's just the way it is in sales, isn't it?

Commit message:

chore: add books to all posts

content/post/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call--second-edition-chapter-2.md, after:

+++
chapter = "The Nine Sales You Must Make First"
title = "Perfect Phrases for the Sales Call, Second Edition"
subtitle = "Hundreds of Ready-to-Use Phrases for Persuading your Customers to Buy Any Product or Service"
author = "Jeb Brooks and William T. Brooks"
chapter_number = 2
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Perfect-Phrases-Sales-Call-Second/dp/0071745041/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1510760739&sr=8-1&keywords=perfect+phrases+for+the+sales+call"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/perfect-phrases-for-the-sales-call-jeb-brooks/1102881090?ean=9780071745048#/"
books=["Perfect Phrases for the Sales Call, Second Edition"]
+++

### 9. You Must Master Special Situations
There are many unique circumstances that you will have to master if you ever hope to be a super-successful salesperson. And those circumstances center primarily around two specific issues: handling price and dislodging competitors who are already providing products or services to your prospect. Without a doubt, these two issues often prove to be the most difficult for salespoeople, no matter their level of experience or expertise.  
  
The first, price, really requires an entire book to explore. In fact, our book, _How to Sell at Margins Higher Than Your Competitors_, deals exclusively with this one complex issue. Suffice it to say at this point that your ease in handling the myriad questions and problems that revolve around price will be one of your major challenges. And here's why.  
  
Your continued sales success has a lot to do with margin. Don't believe for one second that you can survive long in the world of sales if you start discounting to meet a competitor's price or in some other way eroding margin. Highly professional salespeople know that the secret to a long-term sales career is how well they deal with price issues and maintain margin despite the efforts of prospects to get them to reduce their price.  
  
The second issue, dislodging a competitor, requires tact, patience, and skill. It involves one of the more subtle and precise skills you will have to master to expand the reach and increase the depth of your sales effort. Ironically, that skill is far more a matter of pre-call planning and intelligent questioning than of persuasion.  
  
One key truth should be clear and implicit: your best customer is someone else's top prsopect! So defend the high ground. And you should simultaneously make someone else's best customer your top prospect, too. That's just the way it is in sales, isn't it?
