content/post/the-nordstrom-way-to-customer-experience-excellence--third-edition.md, before:

+++
chapter = "Awareness"
title = "The Nordstrom Way To Customer Experience Excellence: Third Edition"
subtitle = "Creating A Values-Driven Service Culture"
author = "Robert Spector & Breanne O. Reeves"
chapter_number = 4
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Nordstrom-Customer-Experience-Excellence-Values-Driven/dp/1119375355/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1513093630&sr=8-2&keywords=nordstrom+way"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/the-nordstrom-way-to-customer-experience-excellence-robert-spector/1126025642?ean=9781119375357"
+++
   
### The Diamond Story
Here's a story that encapsulates all the values we've discussed thus far: trust, respect, communication and collaboration, and awareness.  
Lisa McIntrie Shaw was shopping at the Nordstrom store at the South Park Mall in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was near closing time. She tried on some clothes, made some purchases, and went directly home. That night, before going to bed, she discovered that a 2.8-carat daimond from her wedding ring was missing. She assumed that she lost the diamond at Nordstrom.  
The very next morning, Mrs. Shaw went to the store when it opened and headed over to the women's department, where she had last been. She go down on her hands and knees, searching for the diamond.  
Eric Wilson, the loss prevention agent for that store, noticed the customer crawling on the floor, and asked how he could help. After she explained the situation to him, Eric got down on his hands and knees and joined the search. No luck. He took Mrs. Shaw's contact information and told her he would follow up.  
Eric then contacted two employees in building services, Bart Garcia and Tom Fraley, who joined in the search. Again, no luck. Perhaps the diamond was in one of the vacuum cleaner bags? They gathered the vacuum bags, and began splitting them open and sifting through their dirty ocntents. Eventually, voilà! They found the 2.8-carat stone.  
When Eric called Mrs. Shaw with the good news, she was thrilled to the point of tears. Soon after, her sister blogged about the experience, and others tweeted their appreciation for the team's service.  
Eric Wilson took the initiative. His job description did not include scrutinizing full vacuum cleaner bags. He could have told building services about the lost diamond and then moved on with his tasks for the day. But the customer desperately wanted to find her diamond. Eric owned the situation. He figured out the best approach to solving the problem and made a difference in a person's life.  
Nordstrom spread the tale throughout the company and the culture, including producing a video centered on an interview with the customer. The video clip was shown to virtually all 72,000-plus Nordstrom employees, who were encouraged to "create your own version of the 'diamond story.'"  
To top it off, the video was played at the company's annual shareholders meeting in Seattle. After the clip, Erik Nordstrom told the audience, this story of customer service "raises the bar." Then he introduced Eric Wilson, Bart Garcia, and Tom Fraley, all of whom were flown in from North Carolina, along with members of their families. They were greeted to a standing ovation.  
"How can we create an environment where people like them can do great things?" asked Erik. "Eric Wilson didn't ask what his job description was in loss prevention. Jon one for us is to take care of the customer. Most housekeeping people view their job as cleaning the store. That's where it stops and starts. Clearly, our housekeeping folks knew that their job was taking care of customers. Here was an opportunity to take care of a customer in a different way. All of our jobs are much broader. We all have our day-to-day job of contributing to take care of our customers. But now and then we are presented with opportunities to do it in a different sense, in a broader sense. That story is a great example of what's possible when we focus on the customer."

Commit message:

chore: add books to all posts

content/post/the-nordstrom-way-to-customer-experience-excellence--third-edition.md, after:

+++
chapter = "Awareness"
title = "The Nordstrom Way To Customer Experience Excellence: Third Edition"
subtitle = "Creating A Values-Driven Service Culture"
author = "Robert Spector & Breanne O. Reeves"
chapter_number = 4
amazon = "https://www.amazon.com/Nordstrom-Customer-Experience-Excellence-Values-Driven/dp/1119375355/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1513093630&sr=8-2&keywords=nordstrom+way"
bn = "https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/the-nordstrom-way-to-customer-experience-excellence-robert-spector/1126025642?ean=9781119375357"
books=["The Nordstrom Way To Customer Experience Excellence: Third Edition"]
+++
   
### The Diamond Story
Here's a story that encapsulates all the values we've discussed thus far: trust, respect, communication and collaboration, and awareness.  
Lisa McIntrie Shaw was shopping at the Nordstrom store at the South Park Mall in Charlotte, North Carolina. It was near closing time. She tried on some clothes, made some purchases, and went directly home. That night, before going to bed, she discovered that a 2.8-carat daimond from her wedding ring was missing. She assumed that she lost the diamond at Nordstrom.  
The very next morning, Mrs. Shaw went to the store when it opened and headed over to the women's department, where she had last been. She go down on her hands and knees, searching for the diamond.  
Eric Wilson, the loss prevention agent for that store, noticed the customer crawling on the floor, and asked how he could help. After she explained the situation to him, Eric got down on his hands and knees and joined the search. No luck. He took Mrs. Shaw's contact information and told her he would follow up.  
Eric then contacted two employees in building services, Bart Garcia and Tom Fraley, who joined in the search. Again, no luck. Perhaps the diamond was in one of the vacuum cleaner bags? They gathered the vacuum bags, and began splitting them open and sifting through their dirty ocntents. Eventually, voilà! They found the 2.8-carat stone.  
When Eric called Mrs. Shaw with the good news, she was thrilled to the point of tears. Soon after, her sister blogged about the experience, and others tweeted their appreciation for the team's service.  
Eric Wilson took the initiative. His job description did not include scrutinizing full vacuum cleaner bags. He could have told building services about the lost diamond and then moved on with his tasks for the day. But the customer desperately wanted to find her diamond. Eric owned the situation. He figured out the best approach to solving the problem and made a difference in a person's life.  
Nordstrom spread the tale throughout the company and the culture, including producing a video centered on an interview with the customer. The video clip was shown to virtually all 72,000-plus Nordstrom employees, who were encouraged to "create your own version of the 'diamond story.'"  
To top it off, the video was played at the company's annual shareholders meeting in Seattle. After the clip, Erik Nordstrom told the audience, this story of customer service "raises the bar." Then he introduced Eric Wilson, Bart Garcia, and Tom Fraley, all of whom were flown in from North Carolina, along with members of their families. They were greeted to a standing ovation.  
"How can we create an environment where people like them can do great things?" asked Erik. "Eric Wilson didn't ask what his job description was in loss prevention. Jon one for us is to take care of the customer. Most housekeeping people view their job as cleaning the store. That's where it stops and starts. Clearly, our housekeeping folks knew that their job was taking care of customers. Here was an opportunity to take care of a customer in a different way. All of our jobs are much broader. We all have our day-to-day job of contributing to take care of our customers. But now and then we are presented with opportunities to do it in a different sense, in a broader sense. That story is a great example of what's possible when we focus on the customer."
