+++
title = "Jeff Sessions Testifies Before Senate Committee"
analyses = ["hearing"]
+++

## People Involved
1. Chairman Mr. Burr
2. Attorney General Mr. Sessions

## Senators
- senators use titles: Attorney General, Senator, Chairman, Vice Chairman

## Sessions
- "I appreciate concern" 
  - it is a very removed way to acknowledge a problem
- asked a pointed question
  - "do you believe mr. trump would try to remove mr. muller from the investigation"
    - "i have no idea, i havent had any conversations with trump about that"
  - "would you try to remove mr muller from the investigation"
    - "i believe that would be inappropriate for me to do"
 - In both cases he does not answer with a no, not locking him in 
- Asked a question about whether he lingered or felt uncomfortable about the 1 to 1 meeting btwn Trump and Sessions
  - He restated facts "I recall we were in the room. I recall leaving the room. I recall Comey and Trump were at the table talking as I left."
  - he was asked again and he responded:
    - "i recall being one of the last to leave"
    - "the president asked mr. comeny to stay behind?"
      - "that is a communication that happened in the white house that i would not comment on"
    - "do you remember seeing him at the white house?"
    - he was asked "do you remember lingering?"
      - "i do recall being one of the last ones to leave"
    - "did you decide to be one of the last to leave?"
      - "i do not know how that occured. we finished a briefing. people were filtering out. i do recall being the last or one of the last 2 or 3 to leave."
    - "do you feel you needed to stay because it involved the FBI director?"
      - "i dont know how i would characterize that. i left. it didnt seem to me to be a problem. i knew mr. comey could handle himself."

## Notes
- Opening Chairman has a list of questions
  - did you interact with russian officials?
  - did the trump campaign coordinate with russia?
  - [this is an opening]
- opening Chariman then enourages senators to stay focussed on the issues at hand, a form of refutation
- opening vice chairmain
  - defines what the attorney general is, "more than a surrogate"
  - lays out facts, quotes from the public record
  - lays out questions
    - "were you involved in efforts to undermine russian investigation?"
    - "what are you currently doing to prevent russia from interfering again?"
    - "we are concerned that the president does not recognize the severity of the threat, he hasn't acknowledged the unanimous consensus of the intelligence community"
    - ends with "thank you mr. chairman, i look forward to the witnesses questions"
- opening Sessions
  - i fully appreciate the committees concern
  - "i have a duty to protect my confidential communications with the President"
  - refutations / denials. these are his narration
    - "i did not attend any meetings at the mayflower hotel"
    - "if any brief interaction happened with that russian ambassador, i do not remember"
    - "whether I did, or not, it is beside the point of the investigation"
    - "any thought that I would hurt this country, that i have served for 35 years, is an appalling and detestable lie!"
    - "let me explain the circumstances of my recusal"
    - "i responded to comey's concern by saying it is important for the FBI to follow the policies and rules limiting the interaction with the White House"
    - "so i will finish with this. I recused myself from the investigation. But I did not recuse myself from defending myself against scurrulus accusations." 
      - "i have a high standard" "i have a reputation built over decades." "i will not be weakened, in fact, these events have even strengthed my resolve…"
      - "there are bigger problems...opioid deaths...murder in chicago...i will not be deterred from the vital mission of this department"
  - his whole testimony was ~15 minutes
